---
layout: post
title: EAC Progress in Wine is Finally Here.
---

So it's been a long road getting to here, but I'm happy to say I played 3 games of Apex Legends and Halo: Reach competitively on Linux over the past 24 hours. It's still a bit of a pain but progress is being made, games are finally playable. This opens the door to so many games that did not run previously. While Battle Eye might be a long way off, this is incredible news for Linux Gaming. Reports are piling up for games that are working, and the methods to get them working. 

## Some Things worth Mentioning

+ This is not officially supported by Wine or EAC currently so use this at your own risk. 
+ Esync and Fsync are currently Unsupported. This has major performance implications on weaker machines.
+ This is a **VERY UNSTABLE** release. you will need to create a script to kill wine processes because you'll be using it regularly. I will provide one in the guide below for getting Apex running.
+ Not everything is working. Fortnite for example uses both BattleEye and EAC and it's a gamble which one will launch, though some people have reported success.

## Steps to get Apex Legends working.
Apex is currently the best title to test because people have had the most success with it.

## This is what I had to do to get Apex working:
Join [This Discord](https://discord.gg/xyk669b). 
+ Do not Spam up the Chat and make sure you're posting in the correct channel.
+ There are a ton of Pinned Messages they're hard to sort through. Which is why I'm writing this guide.

### Installation
Install Lutris and Install **Apex**((Not Origin)) from the [Lutris Page](https://lutris.net/games/apex-legends/)

+ Log into your Origin account, and Install Apex **fully** through Origin. It's around 40GB so it might take awhile.
+ Download GloriousEggroll's latest EAC-Testing build [HERE](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1DJUhQrPii9386Y7HDhF5ZsW3T3Z7jUYk/view?usp=sharing)
+ Extract that file and place the folder in `~/.local/share/lutris/runners/wine`
+ When the game is done installing **DO NOT LAUNCH IT** kill all Wine Processes from you Terminal like this `kill -9 $(ps -ef | grep -E -i '(wine|processid|\.exe)' | awk ' {print $2}')`

### Configuration

From Lutris Right Click Apex and go to **Runner Options**:
+ Set the runner to `eac-2020JULY13-eac-derek-x86_64`
+ Scroll down to "Output Debugging info" and set it to "Inherit from environment"

Next we need to install `winhttp` with `winetricks` There's two ways to do this:
+ You can use the winetricks GUI by right clicking Apex and clicking Winetricks. Click Install an Application then click cancel, another GUI window should pop up and select Install Windows DLL or Component, then scroll down and check `winhttp` and click okay. 
+ You can do this from CLI, provided you have `winetricks` installed on your system. Run this command `WINEPREFIX=${HOME}/Games/apex-legends winetricks winhttp`. This will use your System's Wine and **IS NOT RECOMMENDED!** However I've had some issues with the `winetricks` GUI in the past so if you're having issues try this.

## Known Issues.

There's a known issue on some Window Managers for getting a black screen. You can fix this with the launch options `-window -noborder -dev -novid` Which are applied by going into your Library on Origin, click Apex, then clicking the Settings Cog, and going to Advanced Launch Options.

EAC will sometimes launch twice, it does not close gracefully always kill `wine` with the command provided above.

Origin will fail to fully launch if you have Simultaneous Output Enabled for PulseAudio. You can disable this under the Simultaneous Output tab of `paprefs`

**Check the Pinned Messages in The Discord Server** report problems you're having in the places they say to report them.
